# Bioplotting Intestinal Crypts
<p style="text-align: center;">
_To date, there is not a single, in vivo or animal study model that can recapitulate the complexity of the architecture, luminal accessibility, tissue polarity, cell migration, and cellular responses of in vivo intestinal crypts in the normal and diseased gastrointestinal tract._ _**Here, we present the design of a bioplotter for creation of crypt structures within transwells which, when seeded with intestinal stem cells, should achieve complexity highly representative of the human intestines.**_

Why is this important? The disruption of the intestinal barrier results in intestinal permeability which facilitates translocation of harmful substances and pathogens to the bloodstream, causing disruption of homeostasis. As such, drug and toxin studies across the intestinal barrier pertinent to gastrointestinal medicine. The organoid model offers the possibility of recreating a physiologically realistic tissue microenvironment for a breadth of gastrointestinal cells spanning all four cell intestinal cell types (enterocytes, Goblet cells, enteroendocrine cells, and Paneth cells). Each of the four cell types are differentiated from the Lgr5+ stem cell. In the organoid model, the cells can be grown along a crypt-villus axis, with the capability of sampling the cellular milieu directly.

Existing approaches for studying biological systems have focused largely on either whole organism studies or traditional cell culture. Using cell studies that grow one or two cell types in culture either in a Petri dish or in Transwells cannot provide a healthy and controlled microenvironment for **multiple** cell types. Animal models do not always hold the same biological characteristics and relevance. While the organ-on-a-chip or microphysiological systems approach would target a degree of complexity and validity between the animal and cell culture approaches, chip models make cell retrieval nearly impossible without first lysing the cells. The approach of isolating the several cell types most important to a biological processes through human-derived organoids is novel and potentially very powerful. 

The biggest drawback of gastrointestinal organoids, whether enteroid or colonoid, is isolating and propagating the cells. Since you cannot order them from the internet, you must first acquire human intestine and scrape the crypts from the tissue. Then, through a process of precise medium ratios and cell biologist magic, stem cells are extracted from the crypts and made to propagate, similarly to traditional cell culture lines. _However, to differentiate the stem cells, proper luminal micro-architecture is required. While stem cells can self-organize in the upward z-direction to recapitulate the micro-villi structures native to the small intestine, the downward u-shape crypt native to both the small and large intestine is impossible to achieve without microfabricated architecture recapitulating the basement membrane._ **_Herein lies the beauty of bioprinting. Since bioprinting is an additive digital fabrication technique capable of submicron positioning with optimal control over spatial deposition of cells, it makes it capable of reproducing the architecture, cell diversity, and function of the human intestinal barrier formed through self-organization of stem cells._**
</p>
